In this demonstration, we'll see how we can make use of
a consumer's offset settings to consume all of the available data and a topic,
not just data that was produced after reconnected to the topic.
So we're going to go back to the workspace and we have a sample five open.
Let's take a look at some of the code that we have available to us here.
This is our consume function.
We have a to-do message here that's asking us to actually set the auto
offset reset variable to earliest or latest.
We're going to go ahead and try it earliest first.
In fact, we'll actually start by just running this.
So when we run this function,
what's going to happen is we're going to have
a producer that's going to start producing data,
where sleeping the consumer for 2.5 seconds before it starts to consume messages,
to give the producer a chance to build up a backlog
of messages that this consumer is never going to see.
So if I run this Python example just like this and give it just a second,
you can see that the iteration, I'm going to stop this.
If we scroll back up, if we were consuming from the very beginning of the topic,
we would see iteration zero, but we don't see that.
We see that it took a little while for our consumer to be created in Connect,
so it didn't get connected until at least 27 iterations had passed.
Now, one of the ways that we can change this is by
setting the earliest value on our auto offset reset.
We're also going to update our group ID to something different,
we'll call it zero take two.
So to a uniquely identify this as a new consumer group to Kafka.
So let's clear this and let's try this again.
Before we begin, I just want to quickly explain this again.
The auto offset reset option which you can read more about in the Kafka documentation,
so I'm going to pull that up for you.
Essentially tells the Kafka client where to create the consumer at.
Earliest as it says,
automatically resets the offset to the smallest offset available.
So let's go ahead and give that a shot.
So remember, we're going to start incrementing messages from zero on up. All right.
So we're running and you can see here that as soon as the consumer connected,
it started at iteration zero.
So it's starting at the earliest known offset.
Now, here's the thing though.
This auto offset reset function only works the
first time this particular consumer connects to the topic.
If I run again,
we're going to pick up after iteration 12. Let's see this in action.
So as you can see, we ran Python simplified again,
we left off at 12 and we picked up at 13.
Depending on your application,
that might be amazing,
excellent behavior that enables you to build some really exciting applications.
However, if you want to see all the data every time that you start your application,
you need to do a little more work.
Because Kafka keeps track of the last offset message that you saw,
we're going to have to actually tell Kafka to
change where the consumer offset is located.
We can do that using an unassigned callback.
So what this means is,
when we subscribe to the topic,
we want to have this on assigned callback invoked when
the Kafka broker assigns our client our partition to consume from.
So this is an on assigned callback.
I'm actually going to go ahead and pull up
the confluent documentation so you can see what this function looks like.
So your confluent Kafka consumer on assigned.
As you can see, this is a callback which helps us handle customize offsets and it
always takes a consumer and a list of partitions for that consumer.
So going back to our code,
you can see that we have that same function signature here.
Unfortunately, we haven't done anything with the partitions yet. So let's handle that.
Now, partitions are always a list of partitions,
even if there's only one partition.
So we're going to iterate over every partition that
our consumer has been assigned and we're going to
say partition.offset equal OFFSET_EARLIEST.
Now, this is a special value defined by the Confluent Library.
In fact, I actually got wrong, it's actually offset beginning.
You can see I've imported it from confluent Kafka offset beginning.
Now, why would I set this to offset beginning instead of just setting it equal to zero?
Well, truth be told,
if this was a topic of expiring messages,
offset zero may have already been deleted out of the topic.
So it may not actually be available for us to consume anymore.
So offset beginning is
a somewhat safer and honestly easier thing to read in the code than in zero.
It's clear what this means.
So now, if we restart our code,
we should start from iteration zero instead of iteration 27.
Let's see if that worked and it looks like I had a typo here.
I did partitions instead of partition.
So you can see name partition is not defined and that's because I
was iterating for partition in partitions.
So now that I fixed that,
let's try that one more time.
So we're running this again and so you can
see that we started at iteration zero and we got up to iteration nine.
If we hadn't set the partition offset to offset beginning,
we would've started at I believe partition 27. If we scroll back up.
So we can see that in action again.
If this wasn't set,
we would start over at iteration ten. Let's see what happens.
We shouldn't see zero come out again,
starting at iteration zero and we did.
So this is how you actually manage
partition assignment and offset assignment if needed on the consumer side.
Most applications won't necessarily have to do this,
especially stream processing applications that
only care about data in a certain time frame.
However, there are many important use cases of Kafka
where you do need to see all of the data available on a topic.
If you need to see all the data available on a topic,
every single time the application runs,
it's important to make sure that you set your partition offsets to the beginning offset.